Form Handling

# Form Handling

* When the user fills out a form and clicks the submit button, the form data is sent for processing to a PHP file.

#### Proper validation of form data is important to protect your form from hackers and spammers!

## GET vs. POST

* Both GET and POST create an array (e.g. array( key1 => value1, key2 => value2, key3 => value3, ...)). This array holds key/value pairs, where keys are the names of the form controls and values are the input data from the user.

* Both GET and POST are treated as `$_GET` and `$_POST`. These are superglobals, which means that they are always accessible, regardless of scope - and you can access them from any function, class or file without having to do anything special.

* `$_GET` is an array of variables passed to the current script **via the URL parameters**.

* `$_POST` is an array of variables passed to the current script **via the HTTP POST method**.

## GET

* **Information** sent from a form with the GET method is **visible to everyone** (all variable names and values are displayed in the URL). 

* GET also has **limits on the amount of information** to send. The limitation is **about 2000 characters**. However, because the variables are displayed in the URL, it is **possible to bookmark** the page.

* Should only be used for sending non-sensitive data.

#### GET should **NEVER** be used for sending passwords or other **sensitive information**!

## POST

* **Information** sent from a form with the POST method is **invisible to others** (all names/values are embedded within the body of the HTTP request) and has **no limits on the amount of information** to send.

* Moreover POST supports advanced functionality such as support for multi-part binary input while uploading files to server.

* However, because the variables are not displayed in the URL, it is **not possible to bookmark the page**.

#### Developers prefer POST for sending form data.

id: 5a2017c612ae446088da42ea0d3d9c40
parent_id: 41b6510b27e54240bee2cce720f52b4d
created_time: 2021-06-23T18:54:28.573Z
updated_time: 2021-06-23T18:54:44.889Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 38.06110000
longitude: -84.45810000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2021-06-23T18:54:28.573Z
user_updated_time: 2021-06-23T18:54:44.889Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
type_: 1