Arrays

# Arrays

* `array()` function is used to create an array

* In PHP, there are three types of arrays:

	* Indexed arrays - Arrays with a numeric index

	* Associative arrays - Arrays with named keys

	* Multidimensional arrays - Arrays containing one or more arrays

* `count()` function is used to return the length (the number of elements) of an array.

## Indexed Arrays

* Example of looping through an indexed array:

```
<?php
$cars = array("Volvo", "BMW", "Toyota");
$arrlength = count($cars);

for($x = 0; $x < $arrlength; $x++) {
  echo $cars[$x];
  echo "<br>";
}
?>
```

## Associative Arrays

* Associative arrays are arrays that use named keys that you assign to them.  The named keys can then be used in a script.

* Example:

```
<?php
$age = array("Peter"=>"35", "Ben"=>"37", "Joe"=>"43");
echo "Peter is " . $age['Peter'] . " years old.";
?>
```

* To loop through and print all the values of an associative array, you could use a `foreach` loop.

* Example: 

```
<?php
$age = array("Peter"=>"35", "Ben"=>"37", "Joe"=>"43");

foreach($age as $x => $x_value) {
  echo "Key=" . $x . ", Value=" . $x_value;
  echo "<br>";
}
?>
```

## Multi-dimensional Arrays

* A multidimensional array is an array containing one or more arrays.

* PHP supports multidimensional arrays that are two, three, four, five, or more levels deep. However, arrays more than three levels deep are hard to manage for most people.

#### The dimension of an array indicates the number of indices you need to select an element.

* For a **two-dimensional** array you need **two indices** to select an element

* For a **three-dimensional** array you need **three indices** to select an element

## Sorting Arrays

* The elements in an array can be sorted in alphabetical or numerical order, descending or ascending.

* Array sort functions:

	* sort() - sort arrays in ascending order
	
	* rsort() - sort arrays in descending order

	* asort() - sort associative arrays in ascending order, according to the value

	* ksort() - sort associative arrays in ascending order, according to the key

	* arsort() - sort associative arrays in descending order, according to the value

	* krsort() - sort associative arrays in descending order, according to the key

id: 60375a8a7a584a3ab9082a98c6362874
parent_id: 41b6510b27e54240bee2cce720f52b4d
created_time: 2021-06-23T18:44:03.373Z
updated_time: 2021-06-23T18:44:32.291Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 38.06110000
longitude: -84.45810000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2021-06-23T18:44:03.373Z
user_updated_time: 2021-06-23T18:44:32.291Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
type_: 1